This page is a collection of videos, slides, papers, and other media introducing Riak and its features.  *(If you have a video to add, please fork the "Riak Wiki Repo on GitHub":https://github.com/basho/riak_wiki and do so.)*


h2. Slide Decks

This is a sample of the slide decks used in presentations given by Riak Core Developers and Developer Advocates, and members of the Riak Community at conferences, meetups, and various other events worldwide. *(If you have a Slide Deck to add, please fork the "Riak Wiki Repo on GitHub":https://github.com/basho/riak_wiki and do so.)*

More information about the technical differences between Riak and other solutions can be found on (our comparison page)[http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Comparisons.html].


* [[Choosing The Right NoSQL Database - 4Developers|http://www.slideshare.net/juokaz/choosing-the-right-nosql-database-4developers]] - A whirlwind tour of a few NoSQL solutions, learning the very different ways they represent data and seeing their unique strengths and weaknesses in various kinds of applications. Along the way, we'll learn why new technologies must be introduced to address today's scaling challenges, and what compromises we'll have to make if we want to abandon the databases of our youth.
* [[Rolling With Riak|http://www.slideshare.net/johnthethird/rolling-with-riak]] - Overview of Riak's NoSQL distributed key/value data store by John Lynch from Rigel Group.
* [[How does Riak compare to Cassandra?|http://www.slideshare.net/ukd1/how-does-riak-compare-to-cassandra-cassandra-london-user-group-july-2011]] - A presentation about Riak and quick comparison to Cassandra. Presented originally at the Cassandra London User Group in July 2011.


