h1. Innostore

<div id="toc"></div>

h2(#overview).  Setting Up Innostore

Innostore is distributed separately from Riak and will need to be compiled prior to installing.  You will need to have [[Erlang installed|Installing Erlang]] to compile Innostore.

h2(#downloading_deb).  Downloading & Installing Innostore on Debian/Ubuntu

h3. 64-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.2/innostore_1.0.2-2_amd64.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i innostore_1.0.2-2_amd64.deb
```


h3. 32-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.2/innostore_1.0.2-2_i386.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i innostore_1.0.2-2_i386.deb
```


h2(#downloading_rpm).  Downloading & Installing Innostore on RHEL/CentOS


h3. 64-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.2/innostore-1.0.2-2.el5.x86_64.rpm
$ sudo rpm -Uvh innostore-1.0.2-2.el5.x86_64.rpm
```


h3. 32-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.2/innostore-1.0.2-2.fc12.x86_64.rpm
$ sudo rpm -Uvh innostore-1.0.2-2.fc12.x86_64.rpm
```


h2(#downloading_source).  Downloading & Installing Innostore from Source

You can download Innostore [[here|http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.2/innostore-1.0.2.tar.gz]].  A simple way to do this would be using wget:

```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.2/innostore-1.0.2.tar.gz
```


Change to the Innostore directory and compile:

<div class="note"><div class="title">Single CPU Hosts</div>You will need to run the following to allow Innostore to compile:

```bash
$ export ERL_FLAGS="-smp enable"
```
</div>


Untar and compile Innostore:

```bash
$ tar xzvf innostore-1.0.2.tar.gz
$ cd innostore-1.0.2
$ make
```


If Innostore compiled as expected you should see the following:

```bash
./rebar compile eunit verbose=1
........
........
=======================================================
  All 7 tests passed.
Cover analysis: /home/XXXXX/innostore/.eunit/index.html
```


If your compile passed tests you are now ready to install Innostore into your Riak distribution. If you are using a copy of Riak you compiled yourself you can install Innostore by issuing the following command replacing $RIAK with the location of your Riak install:

```bash
$ ./rebar install target=$RIAK/lib
```


If you installed Riak using one of our binary packages you would use the following command:

```bash
$ ./rebar install target=/usr/lib/riak
```


h2(#configuration).  Configuring Innostore

The last step in setting up Innostore is to configure the Riak node to use Innostore as its storage backend by editing your @app.config@ file located in your Riak installs @$RIAK/etc/@ directory or @/etc/riak/app.config@.  If your Riak node is running issue it the stop command.

First change the configured storage engine to use Innostore:

```bash
{storage_backend, riak_kv_bitcask_backend},
```
becomes

```bash
{storage_backend, riak_kv_innostore_backend},
```

You will also need to append the Innostore configuration to the end of your @app.config@ file. A good place for this is after the @SASL@ section (you will need to add a comma after the existing @SASL@ section:

```bash
#Binary Install
{sasl, [ ....
]}, %% < -- make sure you add a comma here!!

{innostore, [
    {data_home_dir, "/var/lib/riak/innodb"}, %% Where data files go
    {log_group_home_dir, "/var/lib/riak/innodb"}, %% Where log files go
    {buffer_pool_size, 268435456} %% 256MB in-memory buffer in bytes
]}
#Source Install
{sasl, [ ....
]}, %% < -- make sure you add a comma here!!

{innostore, [
    {data_home_dir, "$RIAK/data/innodb"}, %% Where data files go
    {log_group_home_dir, "$RIAK/data/innodb"}, %% Where log files go
    {buffer_pool_size, 268435456} %% 256MB in-memory buffer in bytes
]}
```



<div class="note"><div class="title">Single CPU Hosts</div>You will need to add the following to Riak's [[vm.args file|Configuration Files#vm.args]]:

```bash
-smp enable
```


Innostore will either fail to function or function erratically without the flag.
*This is set by default in 0.10 and later.*</div>



<div class="note"><div class="title">RHEL/CentOS</div>You will need to add the following to Riak's [[vm.args file|Configuration Files#vm.args]]:

```bash
-pa /usr/lib64/innostore/ebin
```


Riak will fail to find the modules to use innostore otherwise.  Riak will fail to startup with an @invalid_storage_backend@ error.</div>


Now that you have configured Innostore you can test your install by running to following command:

```bash
# Binary Install
$ sudo /usr/sbin/riak console

# Source Install
$ $RIAK/bin/riak console
```


If the install was successful you will see something similar to:

```bash
100220 16:36:58 InnoDB: highest supported file format is Barracuda.
100220 16:36:58 Embedded InnoDB 1.0.3.5325 started; log sequence number 45764
```


Once you have confirmed your install is successful exit the console and start your Riak node with the start command:

```bash
(riak@127.0.0.1)1> q().
```


h2. Performance Tuning

Innostore is a powerful backend that works for many production scenarios, but it has many tuning parameters that can affect the performance of your Riak cluster.  Here are some generally acceptable settings and practices that should provide good performance and reliability.


<div class="info">All of the settings go in the _innostore_ section of [[app.config|Configuration Files#app.config]].</div>


h3. buffer_pool_size (integer, # of bytes)

Set this to be 60-80% of available RAM (after subtracting RAM consumed by other services).  For example, on a 12GB machine you might set it to 8GB:


```erlang
{buffer_pool_size, 8589934592} %% 8 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024
```


h3. flush_method (string)

On Linux and other Unix-like platforms, setting this to "O_DIRECT" will bypass a layer of filesystem buffering provided by the operating system.  It is generally not necessary since Innostore does its own buffering. Example:


```erlang
{flush_method, "O_DIRECT"}
```


h3. open_files (integer)

Innostore opens a file for each partition/bucket combination, plus several files for its binary logs.    Each of these count against the total number of files any one program may have open.  As a result, you may need to adjust this number up or down from its default to accommodate a lower limit, or more open buckets.  The default is {{300}}.  Example:


```erlang
{open_files, 100} %% accommodate a lower limit
```

<div class="note"><div class="title">Open Files Limit</div>See also [[Open Files Limit]] for information about changing this system-wide.</div>


h3. log_group_home_dir &amp; data_home_dir

For best performance, we recommend putting Innostore's log data on a separate hard disk from the actual data.  This will also make its data more resilient to hardware failure -- corrupted writes to the data files can often be recovered from the binary logs.  Example:


```erlang
{log_group_home_dir, "/data/innodb-log"}, %% mounted from /dev/hda1
{data_home_dir, "/data/riak/innodb"} %% mounted from /dev/hdb1
```


h3. innodb log amount and size

When storing binary objects or working with a cluster the number of log files as well as their size should be increased to handle the additional amount of data being stored in Innostore. The following error exemplifies the log messages that will be seen if your log setup can't cope with the amount of data.


```bash
InnoDB: ERROR: the age of the last checkpoint is 30209814,
InnoDB: which exceeds the log group capacity 30195303.
InnoDB: If you are using big BLOB or TEXT rows, you must set the
InnoDB: combined size of log files at least 10 times bigger than the
InnoDB: largest such row.
```


To fix this issue the following log settings will work for most environments:


```erlang
{log_files_in_group, 6},  %% How many files you need, usually 3 < x < 6
{log_file_size, 268435456},  %% No bigger than 256MB, otherwise recovery takes too long
```
h2. InnoDB Table Format

Embedded InnoDb offers several table formats: @compact@, @dynamic@ and @compressed@. 


* @compact@ format stores the first 768 bytes of the value with the key and any extra data on extension pages.  This is a good option for small values.
* @dynamic@ format stores the value outside separately from the index.  For larger values (>600 bytes) this will make the index pages denser and may provide a performance increase.
* @compressed@ format is like dynamic format, except it compresses the key and data pages.

The default format is @compact@ to match previous innostore releases. To configure, set the @format@ option in your innostore config. The setting is system wide and will be used for all buckets.

```erlang
  %% Use dynamic format tables.
  {innostore, [{format, dynamic}]}.
```

If you wish to use compressed tables the @page_size@ must be set to 0 (changing this is not recommended for any other case).

```erlang
  {innostore, [{format, compressed},
               {page_size, 0}]}.
```

h2. Other Configuration Options

Innostore has many other configuration options that can be tuned to improve performance. They are documented more extensively in the "Embedded InnoDB documentation":http://www.innodb.com/doc/embedded_innodb-1.0/#config-vars. When setting a configuration option, be sure to respect its type; for example, "Boolean" types should be @true@ or @false@.

h2. Other tuning techniques

h3. noatime

Innostore is very aggressive at reading and writing files.  As such, you can get a big speed boost by adding the _noatime_ mounting option to @/etc/fstab@ (or wherever your platform defines the mounted devices.  This will disable the recording of the "last accessed time" for all files. Example:


```bash
/dev/sda5    /data           ext3    noatime  1 1
/dev/sdb1    /data/inno-log  ext3    noatime  1 2
```


h2. Miscellaneous

h3. Key Size

Maximum key size for Innostore is 255 bytes.