The following steps should get you up and running with Riak on MacOSX 10.5 or 10.6. You can install from source or download a precompiled tarball.


<div class="note"><div class="title">ulimit on OS X</div>OS X gives you a very small limit on open file handles, so even with a backend that uses very few file handles, it's possible to run out. See [[Open Files Limit]] for more information about changing the limit.</div>

----

*Install Types*
<div id="toc"></div>

h2. From Precompiled Tarballs

To run Riak from our precompiled tarball, run these commands for the appropriate platform:

h3. 64-bit

```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak-1.1.4-osx-x86_64.tar.gz
$ tar xzvf riak-1.1.4-osx-x86_64.tar.gz
```

After the release is untared you will be able to cd into the riak directory and execute bin/riak start to start the Riak node.

h3. 32-bit

Only a 64-bit binary is available at this time.

h2.  Homebrew

<div class="note">
Homebrew support for Riak is not always up to date with the latest Riak package. Please ensure that the current recipe is using the latest supported code (and don't be scared to update if it's not). 
</div>

Installing with Homebrew is easy:


```bash
$ brew install riak
```

Homebrew will install Erlang if you don't have it already.

h2. From source

You must have XCode tools installed from the CD that came with your Mac or from Apple's [[Developer website|http://developer.apple.com]].

<div class="note">
Riak will not compile with Clang. Please make sure your default C/C++ compiler is GCC.
</div>

Riak requires [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/]] R14B03 or later. If you do not have Erlang already installed, see [[Installing Erlang]]. Don't worry, it's easy!

Next, download and unpack the source distribution.


```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak-1.1.4.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf riak-1.1.4.tar.gz
$ cd riak-1.1.4
$ make rel
```

If you get errors when building about "incompatible architecture", please verify that you built Erlang with the same architecture as your system (Snow Leopard - 64bit, everything else - 32bit).

h2. Next Steps?

From here you might want to check out:
* [[Riak Fast Track|The-Riak-Fast-Track]]: a guide for setting up a 4 node cluster and exploring Riak's main features.
* [[Basic Cluster Setup|Basic Cluster Setup]]: a guide that will show you how to go from one node to bigger than Google!
