The following steps should get you up and running with Riak on Centos or Redhat.  You can install from source or from our custom .rpm package. Please note, CentOS enables SE Linux by default and you may need to disable SE Linux if you encounter errors.

<div class="note"><div class="title">OTP R14B03 and Riak_ee 1.0.2 do not work on CentOS 5.2, but do work on CentOS 5.3 and other newer versions.</div></div>

h2. From our custom .rpm package

h3. For Centos 5 / RHEL 5

```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak-1.1.2-1.el5.x86_64.rpm
$ sudo rpm -Uvh riak-1.1.2-1.el5.x86_64.rpm
```

h3. For Centos 6 / RHEL 6

```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak-1.1.2-1.el6.x86_64.rpm
$ sudo rpm -Uvh riak-1.1.2-1.el6.x86_64.rpm
```

h2. From source

Riak requires [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/]] R14B03 or later. If you do not have Erlang already installed, see [[Installing Erlang]]. Don't worry, it's easy!

Building from source will require the following packages:
* gcc
* gcc-c++
* glibc-devel
* make

You can install these with yum:


```bash
$ sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel make
```


Now we can download and install Riak:


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak-1.1.2.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf riak-1.1.2.tar.gz
$ cd riak-1.1.2
$ make rel
```


There should now be a fresh build of Riak in the rel/riak directory.

h2. Next Steps?

From here you might want to check out:
* [[Riak Fast Track|The-Riak-Fast-Track]]: a guide for setting up a 4 node cluster and exploring Riak's main features.
* [[Basic Cluster Setup|Basic Cluster Setup]]: a guide that will show you how to go from one node to bigger than Google!
