The following steps should get you up and running with Riak on Debian or Ubuntu 10.04. If you are installing on Ubuntu 11.10+ please see the special section below.

You can install from source or from our custom .deb package.

h2. From our custom .deb package

To install from our pre-built package, run these commands for the appropriate platform:

h3. 64-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak_1.1.2-1_amd64.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i riak_1.1.2-1_amd64.deb
```


h3. 32-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak_1.1.2-1_i386.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i riak_1.1.2-1_i386.deb
```

h3. Ubuntu 11.10+ SSL requirement


In Ubuntu 11.10 and above, the 0.9.8 series of libssl was not installed by default. You will need to install libssl0.9.8 before installing Riak.

Please note, you can safely install libssl0.9.8 along side your current libssl1.0.0 install!

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install libssl0.9.8
```


h2. From source

Riak requires [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/]] R14B03 or later. If you do not have Erlang already installed, see [[Installing Erlang]]. Don't worry, it's easy!

Let's install the dependencies that we can from apt:


```bash
$ sudo apt-get install build-essential libc6-dev-i386
```

If you have not installed Erlang, please [[do so|Installing Erlang]].

Now we can download and install Riak:

```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/riak-1.1.2.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf riak-1.1.2.tar.gz
$ cd riak-1.1.2
$ make rel
```

There should now be a fresh build of Riak in the rel/riak directory.

h2. Next Steps?

From here you might want to check out:
* [[Riak Fast Track|The-Riak-Fast-Track]]: a guide for setting up a 3 node cluster and exploring Riak's main features.
* [[Basic Cluster Setup|Basic Cluster Setup]]: a guide that will show you how to go from one node to bigger than Google!  


